Hello and welcome back to the course on Tableau and in the previous sections of this course we created
the dashboard.
It's all ready to go it's fired up.
Let's have a look at it and analyze how the different regions what's happening in the different regions
of the U.K. for this bank.
So to get into it right away.
This is our customer base line.
Let's have a look at it.
We know that most of our customers are in England.
Then second place is Scotland than Wales than Northern Ireland.
Now if you look at the breakdown by balance you'll see that it's dropping off gradually as first the
first slowly and then quite quickly and that is something that you would expect that the lower the balanced
band the more customers you will have in that band.
So of 0 to 10000 10000 to 2020 to 30000 all have about 15 percent of our customers which in total constitute
45 percent of our customers sit under 30 thousand dollars.
Next the distribution by age is also quite interesting here you can see that most of our customers are
in their 30s so early 30s and late 30s and together that's 40 percent.
So if I change this to age group by 10 years you'll see that 40 percent of our customers are in their
30s 2 in their 30s basically.
And now if we go back here you can see the gender breakdown somewhat a bit more males and females but
not that much of a difference.
And job classification mostly white collar so nearly half.
And then a quarter each for blue collar and other.
All right.
So now let's look at the regions and see how when we click on the regions they deviate from the baseline
because that is ultimately what we want to report how each region is different to the overall average.
So if we click on the United Kingdom you can see that distribution by balance doesn't change that much.
Gender change is a little bit but also not that much.
5 percent change distribution by age changes.
So here in our overall representation on our baseline you can see that this is a right skewed distribution
meaning that that this is the mean of this.
It looks like a normal distribution which is which is natural.
So here you can see that the mean is sitting at somewhere at about 35 years old and then it's got a
long right sided tale.
So that means that it is a right skewed distribution whereas it when you clicked on England the distribution
is no longer right skewed.
What that is telling us is that the customers that are in their later age groups they are not product
predominantly they're not in England they're somewhere else.
And now where we want to look at is the job classification so here you can see white collar 50 percent
in England it's actually 70 percent so much more white collar workers in England and perhaps that has
something to do with London the economic hub of Europe being in this region and therefore perhaps a
lot of the finance workers or workers in the finance industry and decide to bank with Bank.
So they might find attractive and that's something you want to convey to the executives that when they
are advertising or working with customers in England perhaps it's a good idea to take due care or special
care of the white collar workers and see how you can tailor the services to their needs in this specific
region.
So that's what we're going to be focusing on in our storyline that England is predominately white collar
workers.
Next we'll move on to Scotland.
Once again we will unclip the map.
So we have the baseline and now when you click on Scotland we can visually compare.
You can see that the balanced distribution changes a bit but not too much.
There's some anomalies but the rest of the charts change quite a lot.
So gender breakdown goes from 54 percent male all the way to 72 percent male white collar workers completely
disappear.
Well there's a little bit of them here.
And mostly it's blue collar workers and other and also the demographic age demographic is completely
different so now our customers are in their late 40s early 50s which is very very interesting.
So what this is telling us is that if you're going to service this region or when you're servicing this
region and creating promotions and different campaigns for this region you have to aim for a much older
demographic predominately male and more in the blue collar space.
So if I click on blue collar here you'll see that 95 percent of the blue collar workers in this region
are all male.
And if I click on other you'll see that there's a different picture here.
More female.
So if you are going to aim for blue collar workers You want to expand the net or the bank customer base
in Scotland in the blue collar worker space then you should be targeting males in their late 40s early
50s.
On the other hand if you want to target other kind of professions then you should still take into consideration
that there is a large female representation in even in this region where overall there is predominately
a male representation.
So that's what we'll be focusing on in Scotland in our storyline.
Let's move on to Wales.
What can we see in Wales.
Well the first thing that jumps into my attention is the balance so if you look at the overall distribution
balance it gradually falls off in Wales.
It's stagnant for a bit.
We can dig into this further by grouping these balance balances not into ten thousand dollar groups
or but into fifteen thousand dollar groups.
And here you can see a different picture so for the overall base you can see it's still gradually falling
off in these balance groups for Wales.
It's actually first going up then it's staying above the original level of about 18 percent and then
it's dropping off.
So what that is telling us is that in Wales there's an abnormally large representation of average or
not average abnormally large representation of mid sized balances so that balances from zero 4 from
zero to forty five thousand dollars.
It is above average.
It's not consistent with the overall baseline.
And so that's something we want to report.
The other elements here they're not as significant Well there is quite a bit of a gender split a different
gender split a job classification changes a bit dispersion by age but probably what is the most interesting
part is this distribution by balance.
And finally for move on to Northern Ireland.
Here you can see another completely different demographic again once again.
So I'm going to go back to balance group ten thousand and this is quite consistent with the baseline
a bit of anomalies but does to do with the low sample size.
But what we can see here is 74 percent are female and mostly this demographic is a younger demographic.
So mostly these people are in their 20s late 20s early 30s as opposed to in the baseline 30 or early
30s to late 30s.
So they're a bit younger and they're predominantly female 74 percent which is completely opposite total
baseline where their customers are predominantly male.
And here the main job classification is other workers.
And if you click on that you will see that they're predominately female.
So that is how to analyze a segmentation dashboard.
You can definitely add look at additional insights and drill in further so you can go here and then
you could try to analyze what's going on with these specific workers and derive more insights from this
data and that's definitely that you should sign something you should do.
But for the storyline that is sufficient for us those are like conversational topics something to get
the storyline going and you'll see how this all comes together in a storyline and also you can see now
what's called the segmentation dashboard because it allows us to Sacramento customer base and understand
how to service them better.
I'll give you an example.
Let's say you have your bank comes up with an insurance offering or some kind of new product that involves
insurance.
Well if you're this bank wants to market the insurance offering to your existing customers then you
would approach it differently in different regions for instance in Scotland you know that your customers
just by looking at this picture right away you know that your customers are in their late early late
40s and early 50s they're predominantly male and mostly blue collar workers.
So you just keep that thought in mind for a second.
Now let's go to Northern Ireland.
Here you can see a completely different picture.
You can see that they're predominantly female in their early 30s late 20s early 30s.
So even if you're marketing the same product you might want to position it differently.
So in Northern Ireland you might say that this insurance will allow you to take care of life changing
events for example purchasing homes or getting married or having children and so on because that's important
to take care of these events that are changing your life and so on.
And in Scotland these people have already had all of those events most of these people so you would
put a position that differently you would say this insurance is important because it will help you protect
the people you love it'll help you look after your families and we know you're you're in a high risk
profession and you're doing a lot of manual labor so it is important to have this insurance so that
you are covered and the people that you love are protected.
And so that way that is how businesses benefit from these type of segmentation dashboards because they
not only are able to sell the price they're able to sell their products much more in a much more tailored
fashion much more making the offering more relevant to the people they are targeting and there's nothing
bad about it's actually a good thing that you're delivering a good customer experience you're showing
your customers that you know who they are you know what what they care about and what is important to
them and that is very important in today's world where we have lots and lots of data which you can use
and you can analyze and you should businesses should take advantage of these of this data to make the
customer experience as great as possible.
I hope you enjoy this tutorial and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.